Did this example in a previous video we calculate the electrical potential energy.
If I had a two micro cooling charge and a four micro cool ohm charge separated by three meters.
All right.
Well again now for there to be potential energy we need both of these charges to be there.
And again this is a scalar quantity.
This number could be positive if it was a positive a negative.
We show examples where the potential energy could be negative.
All right now the question is what happens if we only have one charge.
Well if we only have one charge or we're gonna do is we're going to get rid of this one.
Let's get rid of the four micro cooling for now.
All right.
Well if I only have one charge I mean I'm going to have to place some point here I'm going to call it
a point P again if we only have one charge we don't have potential energy because there's only one charge.
But again let's have a look at what the equation would look like if we only had one charge.
Well now I'm going to call this quantity V which is different and I'm going to keep everything else
the same k q 1 and divided by R KS the same Q would be the magnitude of this charge and R are now has
a different meaning right.
R is now the distance from the charge to the point where I want to evaluate this quantity V.
This is what we call the electrical potential.
And it's the electrical potential produced by a point charge.
It's also very important.
OK.
So this is really this discussion I'm having here is four point charges so let's go ahead and calculate
this value so we just substitute the values in there right.
We have nine times 10 to the nine I have q one which is to micro Coolum
and what else.
Now I have to divide by three and that's it.
So V at the end of the day is let me put that in the calculator nine.
Each of the nine times to e to the negative six and divided by three.
This gives me a number of six thousand.
Now what are the units of this value.
Well it's kind of like this equation and the potential energy was joules except I've removed one of
the charges.
Okay this is what we call a jewel per Coolum right.
So this quantity V is how much energy you have per charge so let's just write this down as a V.
The units of it are in jewels per Coolum and this means it's energy that we have per unit charge.
We simplify this.
OK.
We give this a special name.
This is what we call a Volt.
And this is something that we're a little bit more familiar in everyday life.
You hear this term a lot.
Volts go volts is a unit of potential.
Okay.
So this is really really important.
So a lot of times I'm just gonna write sic V equals to six thousand volts in this case.
That's it.
That's the same thing.
So one jewel per cool ohm is equivalent to one volt.
So the question is now all what if I know this electrical potential is six thousand right here.
That's what we just calculated.
Well I'm going to go ahead now and I'm going to place a nother charge right here at this position.
This charge is going to have a value of 4 micro cooling similar to what we did before.
How could I calculate what is the potential energy now in the system using the fact that I know I have
six thousand volts at that point.
So this is a really important equation right here.
I think about it here I can write that the potential energy is if you look at the first part of my potential
energy right here.
This guy here is really what our volt equation was what the potential was do at the end.
I can always write an electrical potential as a charge in this case if the charge for micro cooling
multiplied by the electrical potential at that specific point.
So in this case the formula would look like this I'm going to place a four micro cooling charge here
10 to the negative 6 and I'm placing it at a position where the voltage or the electrical potential
produced by this 2 Micro cooling charge is six thousand volts.
I guess what we get at the end of the day we're going to get the same thing as we would is if we use
the top equation right here and this number was zero point zero to four and that answer has to be in
units of joules that is the potential energy.
All right.
So we've used we've introduced this concept and it's actually a really powerful because if we know the
electrical potential anywhere in space if we know it's six thousand it's very very easy to calculate
what the total energy is simply by multiplying by whatever charge we have here.